docs/protocols/mqtt.md, before:

---
id: mqtt
title: MQTT
sidebar_position: 2
---

import MqttImage from './img/mqtt.jpg';

<center><img src={MqttImage} width="70%" height="70%" /></center>

MQTT is a standard messaging protocol for the Internet of Things (IoT). It is designed as an extremely lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport that is ideal for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, oil and gas, etc.

To work with MQTT protocol, NBomber provides [NBomber.MQTT](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT) plugin that includes functionality for sending and receiving messages, including tracking of data transfer and status codes.

:::info
To install [NBomber.MQTT](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT) package you should execute the following *dotnet* command:

[![build](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/nbomber.mqtt.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/nbomber.mqtt/)

```code
dotnet add package NBomber.MQTT
```
:::

## MQTT API

MQTT plugin provides a wrapper over the popular library [MQTTnet](https://github.com/dotnet/MQTTnet). The wrapper implements basic methods for publishing and receiving messages.

```csharp
var payload = Data.GenerateRandomBytes(200);

var scenario = Scenario.Create("mqtt_scenario", async ctx =>
{
    using var client = new MqttClient(new MqttFactory().CreateMqttClient());    
    
    var topic = $"/clients/{ctx.ScenarioInfo.InstanceId}";

    var connect = await Step.Run("connect", ctx, async () =>
    {
        var clientOptions = new MqttClientOptionsBuilder()
            .WithTcpServer("localhost")
            // .WithWebSocketServer(options => options.WithUri("ws://localhost:8083/mqtt"))
            .WithCleanSession()
            .WithClientId($"client_{ctx.ScenarioInfo.InstanceId}")
            .Build();

        var response = await client.Connect(clientOptions);
        return response;
    });

    var subscribe = await Step.Run("subscribe", ctx, () => client.Subscribe(topic));

    var publish = await Step.Run("publish", ctx, async () =>
    {
        var msg = new MqttApplicationMessageBuilder()
            .WithTopic(topic)
            .WithPayload(payload)
            .Build();

        var response = await client.Publish(msg);
        return response;
    });

    var receive = await Step.Run("receive", ctx, async () =>
    {
        var response = await client.Receive();
        return response;
    });

    var disconnect = await Step.Run("disconnect", ctx, () => client.Disconnect());

    return Response.Ok();
});
```

*You can find the complete example by this [link](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber/blob/dev/examples/Demo/MQTT/PingPongMqttTest.cs).*

### Original IMqttClient

NBomber MQTT plugin is basically a wrapper over the popular library [MQTTnet](https://github.com/dotnet/MQTTnet). If you need to work with the original *IMqttClient* from *MQTTnet* library, you can use public `Client` property. All native methods are available for usage.

```csharp
using var mqtt = new MqttClient(new MqttFactory().CreateMqttClient());

// highlight-start
var originalClient = mqtt.Client;
// highlight-end
```

Commit message:

Added warnings for experimental packages

docs/protocols/mqtt.md, after:

---
id: mqtt
title: MQTT
sidebar_position: 2
---

import MqttImage from './img/mqtt.jpg';

<center><img src={MqttImage} width="70%" height="70%" /></center>

MQTT is a standard messaging protocol for the Internet of Things (IoT). It is designed as an extremely lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport that is ideal for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, oil and gas, etc.

To work with MQTT protocol, NBomber provides [NBomber.MQTT](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT) plugin that includes functionality for sending and receiving messages, including tracking of data transfer and status codes.

:::warning
This package is experimental and might be subject to breaking API changes in the future. While we intend to keep experimental packages as stable as possible, we may need to introduce breaking changes.
:::

:::info
To install [NBomber.MQTT](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT) package you should execute the following *dotnet* command:

[![build](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.MQTT)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/nbomber.mqtt.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/nbomber.mqtt/)

```code
dotnet add package NBomber.MQTT
```
:::

## MQTT API

MQTT plugin provides a wrapper over the popular library [MQTTnet](https://github.com/dotnet/MQTTnet). The wrapper implements basic methods for publishing and receiving messages.

```csharp
var payload = Data.GenerateRandomBytes(200);

var scenario = Scenario.Create("mqtt_scenario", async ctx =>
{
    using var client = new MqttClient(new MqttFactory().CreateMqttClient());    
    
    var topic = $"/clients/{ctx.ScenarioInfo.InstanceId}";

    var connect = await Step.Run("connect", ctx, async () =>
    {
        var clientOptions = new MqttClientOptionsBuilder()
            .WithTcpServer("localhost")
            // .WithWebSocketServer(options => options.WithUri("ws://localhost:8083/mqtt"))
            .WithCleanSession()
            .WithClientId($"client_{ctx.ScenarioInfo.InstanceId}")
            .Build();

        var response = await client.Connect(clientOptions);
        return response;
    });

    var subscribe = await Step.Run("subscribe", ctx, () => client.Subscribe(topic));

    var publish = await Step.Run("publish", ctx, async () =>
    {
        var msg = new MqttApplicationMessageBuilder()
            .WithTopic(topic)
            .WithPayload(payload)
            .Build();

        var response = await client.Publish(msg);
        return response;
    });

    var receive = await Step.Run("receive", ctx, async () =>
    {
        var response = await client.Receive();
        return response;
    });

    var disconnect = await Step.Run("disconnect", ctx, () => client.Disconnect());

    return Response.Ok();
});
```

*You can find the complete example by this [link](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber/blob/dev/examples/Demo/MQTT/PingPongMqttTest.cs).*

### Original IMqttClient

NBomber MQTT plugin is basically a wrapper over the popular library [MQTTnet](https://github.com/dotnet/MQTTnet). If you need to work with the original *IMqttClient* from *MQTTnet* library, you can use public `Client` property. All native methods are available for usage.

```csharp
using var mqtt = new MqttClient(new MqttFactory().CreateMqttClient());

// highlight-start
var originalClient = mqtt.Client;
// highlight-end
```
