docs/protocols/websockets.md, before:

---
id: websockets
title: WebSockets
sidebar_position: 1
---

import WebSocketsImage from './img/web_sockets.jpg'; 

<center><img src={WebSocketsImage} width="50%" height="50%" /></center>

WebSockets is a protocol that provides full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection. It is commonly used by single-page apps (SPAs) and mobile apps, to add server-push based functionality, which usually improves performance. Also, it is used for applications that require real-time communication.

To work with WebSockets, NBomber provides [NBomber.WebSockets](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.WebSockets) plugin. 

:::info
To install [NBomber.WebSockets](https://www.nuget.org/packages/nbomber.websockets/) package you should execute the following *dotnet* command:

[![build](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.WebSockets/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.WebSockets)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/nbomber.websockets.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/nbomber.websockets/)

```code
dotnet add package NBomber.WebSockets
```
:::

## WebSockets API

`NBomber.WebSockets` plugin provides `WebSocket` type that is wrapper over native [ClientWebSocket](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.net.websockets.clientwebsocket?view=net-8.0) that provides extenions to simplify WebSockets handling.

- `Send` and `Receive` methods use reusable memory pools to reduce memory allocations.
- `Receive` method follows Pull-based semantics that simplifies writing load test scenarios due to the liner composition of the request/response handling.

```csharp
var scenario = Scenario.Create("web_sockets", async context =>
{    
    using var websocket = new WebSocket(new WebSocketConfig());    

    var connect = await Step.Run("connect", context, async () =>
    {        
        await websocket.Connect("ws://localhost:5231/ws");     
        return Response.Ok();
    });

    var ping = await Step.Run("ping", context, async () =>
    {        
        await websocket.Send(payload);     
        return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: payload.Length);
    });

    var pong = await Step.Run("pong", context, async () =>
    {        
        using var response = await websocket.Receive();        
        return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: response.Data.Length);
    });

    var disconnect = await Step.Run("disconnect", context, async () =>
    {        
        await websocket.Close();        
        return Response.Ok();
    });

    return Response.Ok();
});
```

*You can find the complete example by this [link](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber/blob/dev/examples/Demo/WebSockets/PingPongWebSocketsTest.cs).*

### Connect

This method should be used to connect to a WebSocket server asynchronously.

```csharp
public Task Connect(string url, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);

public Task Connect(Uri uri, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example:

```csharp
using var websocket = new WebSocket(new WebSocketConfig());

await websocket.Connect("ws://localhost:5231/ws");
```

### Send

This method should be used to send data on WebSocket asynchronously.

```csharp
public ValueTask Send(string text, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);

public ValueTask Send(ReadOnlyMemory<byte> payload, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example 1: in this example, we will send a plain text. The text will be encoded using UTF8 encoding.

```csharp
var step = await Step.Run("send", context, async () =>
{
    string command = "ping";    
    await websocket.Send(command);

    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: command.Length);
});
```

Example 2: in this example, we will send a binary payload.

```csharp
var step = await Step.Run("send", context, async () =>
{
    byte[] data = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("pong");
    await websocket.Send(data);
    
    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: data.Length);
});
```

### Receive

This method should be used to receive a WebSocket message from the connected WebSocket asynchronously.

:::tip
This method returns `WebSocketResponse` that should be disposed of after usage.
:::

```csharp
public ValueTask<WebSocketResponse> Receive(CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example: in this example, we will receive a WebSocket message.

```csharp
var ping = await Step.Run("send", context, async () =>
{
    await websocket.Send(payload);
    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: payload.Length);
});

var pong = await Step.Run("receive", context, async () =>
{
    // highlight-start
    using var response = await websocket.Receive();    
    // highlight-end

    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: response.Data.Length);
});
```

### Close

This method should be used to close WebSocket connection asynchronously.

```csharp
public Task Close(WebSocketCloseStatus closeStatus = WebSocketCloseStatus.NormalClosure, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example:

```csharp
var ping = await Step.Run("disconnect", context, async () =>
{
    await websocket.Close();
    return Response.Ok();
});
```

### Original ClientWebSocket

NBomber.WebSockets plugin is basically a wrapper over native [ClientWebSocket](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.net.websockets.clientwebsocket?view=net-8.0) that provides extenions to simplify WebSockets handling. If you need to work with the original *ClientWebSocket*, you can use public `Client` property. All native methods are available for usage.

```csharp
using var websocket = new WebSocket(new WebSocketConfig());

// highlight-start
var originalClient = websocket.Client;
// highlight-end
```

Commit message:

Added warnings for experimental packages

docs/protocols/websockets.md, after:

---
id: websockets
title: WebSockets
sidebar_position: 1
---

import WebSocketsImage from './img/web_sockets.jpg'; 

<center><img src={WebSocketsImage} width="50%" height="50%" /></center>

WebSockets is a protocol that provides full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection. It is commonly used by single-page apps (SPAs) and mobile apps, to add server-push based functionality, which usually improves performance. Also, it is used for applications that require real-time communication.

To work with WebSockets, NBomber provides [NBomber.WebSockets](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.WebSockets) plugin. 

:::warning
This package is experimental and might be subject to breaking API changes in the future. While we intend to keep experimental packages as stable as possible, we may need to introduce breaking changes.
:::

:::info
To install [NBomber.WebSockets](https://www.nuget.org/packages/nbomber.websockets/) package you should execute the following *dotnet* command:

[![build](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.WebSockets/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber.WebSockets)
[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/nbomber.websockets.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/nbomber.websockets/)

```code
dotnet add package NBomber.WebSockets
```
:::

## WebSockets API

`NBomber.WebSockets` plugin provides `WebSocket` type that is wrapper over native [ClientWebSocket](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.net.websockets.clientwebsocket?view=net-8.0) that provides extenions to simplify WebSockets handling.

- `Send` and `Receive` methods use reusable memory pools to reduce memory allocations.
- `Receive` method follows Pull-based semantics that simplifies writing load test scenarios due to the liner composition of the request/response handling.

```csharp
var scenario = Scenario.Create("web_sockets", async context =>
{    
    using var websocket = new WebSocket(new WebSocketConfig());    

    var connect = await Step.Run("connect", context, async () =>
    {        
        await websocket.Connect("ws://localhost:5231/ws");     
        return Response.Ok();
    });

    var ping = await Step.Run("ping", context, async () =>
    {        
        await websocket.Send(payload);     
        return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: payload.Length);
    });

    var pong = await Step.Run("pong", context, async () =>
    {        
        using var response = await websocket.Receive();        
        return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: response.Data.Length);
    });

    var disconnect = await Step.Run("disconnect", context, async () =>
    {        
        await websocket.Close();        
        return Response.Ok();
    });

    return Response.Ok();
});
```

*You can find the complete example by this [link](https://github.com/PragmaticFlow/NBomber/blob/dev/examples/Demo/WebSockets/PingPongWebSocketsTest.cs).*

### Connect

This method should be used to connect to a WebSocket server asynchronously.

```csharp
public Task Connect(string url, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);

public Task Connect(Uri uri, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example:

```csharp
using var websocket = new WebSocket(new WebSocketConfig());

await websocket.Connect("ws://localhost:5231/ws");
```

### Send

This method should be used to send data on WebSocket asynchronously.

```csharp
public ValueTask Send(string text, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);

public ValueTask Send(ReadOnlyMemory<byte> payload, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example 1: in this example, we will send a plain text. The text will be encoded using UTF8 encoding.

```csharp
var step = await Step.Run("send", context, async () =>
{
    string command = "ping";    
    await websocket.Send(command);

    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: command.Length);
});
```

Example 2: in this example, we will send a binary payload.

```csharp
var step = await Step.Run("send", context, async () =>
{
    byte[] data = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("pong");
    await websocket.Send(data);
    
    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: data.Length);
});
```

### Receive

This method should be used to receive a WebSocket message from the connected WebSocket asynchronously.

:::tip
This method returns `WebSocketResponse` that should be disposed of after usage.
:::

```csharp
public ValueTask<WebSocketResponse> Receive(CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example: in this example, we will receive a WebSocket message.

```csharp
var ping = await Step.Run("send", context, async () =>
{
    await websocket.Send(payload);
    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: payload.Length);
});

var pong = await Step.Run("receive", context, async () =>
{
    // highlight-start
    using var response = await websocket.Receive();    
    // highlight-end

    return Response.Ok(sizeBytes: response.Data.Length);
});
```

### Close

This method should be used to close WebSocket connection asynchronously.

```csharp
public Task Close(WebSocketCloseStatus closeStatus = WebSocketCloseStatus.NormalClosure, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
```

Example:

```csharp
var ping = await Step.Run("disconnect", context, async () =>
{
    await websocket.Close();
    return Response.Ok();
});
```

### Original ClientWebSocket

NBomber.WebSockets plugin is basically a wrapper over native [ClientWebSocket](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.net.websockets.clientwebsocket?view=net-8.0) that provides extenions to simplify WebSockets handling. If you need to work with the original *ClientWebSocket*, you can use public `Client` property. All native methods are available for usage.

```csharp
using var websocket = new WebSocket(new WebSocketConfig());

// highlight-start
var originalClient = websocket.Client;
// highlight-end
```
